In this video I'll take a moment to explain.
V.M. Where are tools and why it's so important.
And some of the reasons why you want to make sure that it's running on every virtual machine that you
can possibly run it on.
Now before we get into some of the specific features that VMWare tools provides.
Let's take a quick look at how you can install the tools on your virtual machines.
So there's a couple ways that you can go about this.
And there's also a couple of ways that you can ensure that VM or tools is kept consistently updated.
My personal favorite way to do this is to just allow VM or tools to automatically update every time
you reboot a virtual machine.
So for example here we see a virtual machine called Rick creek she.
If I want to I can right click this virtual machine and there's a number of options here.
I'm going to go to edit settings and under edit settings what I can do is I can choose to allow VM or
tools to automatically update upon reboot.
The reason that I like to do this is because many V.M. were tools upgrades actually require a reboot.
And so if I just check this option now I know that in the future whenever this virtual machine gets
rebooted it's going to update at that time and I'm not going to have to do an extra reboot just to get
VM or tools installed on this particular VM.
So that's really one of the easiest ways to make sure that VM or tools is up to date on your virtual
machines by allowing it to automatically upgrade every time the virtual machine is powered up and the
way that VM or tools works is it actually mounts as an ISO image.
So when you boot up your virtual machine it will mount an ISO image to this this virtual machine CD
DVD drive and that's how the VM or tools installation will actually take place.
Now why do we care if VM or tools is installed on your virtual machine.
Well there's a couple really important reasons.
So for this virtual machine if I go to the summary screen I have the ability to open a console to this
VM.
Now at the moment it's powered off.
But if I want to I could open a console to this virtual machine and you can see right here via our tools
is not running and has not installed my console isn't going to work as nicely as it would if I had VM
or tools installed.
Right.
The mouse is going to be a little flaky.
That's not going to work as smoothly as it would if I had VM or tools installed.
That's one of the more glaring requirements for VM are tools but it's probably not one of the most important
VMWare tools includes certain drivers.
So for this VM for example if I go to edit settings for this VM I've chosen a certain type of virtual
network interface card.
I've chosen the VM x three virtual network interface card type and that requires VM Ware tools VM or
tools has the drivers for the VM X that three virtual NEC bundled in.
So that's one really important reason that I need VM are tools.
The other really important reason is for memory VM where tools includes the balloon driver for memory
and what that means is if my ESX I host that this VM is running on starts to run out of memory.
It has a mechanism called ballooning that it can use to actually reclaim a memory that is no longer
being used by the virtual machines running on that host.
So if my host starts to run out of memory I'm going to have a really problematic situation here because
I don't have more tools installed on my virtual machines.
The host cannot get memory back from those via SMS.
So it's definitely a performance best practice to have the more tools installed on all your VMS.
And one final note.
VM are tools also gives us the ability to perform a soft shut down and a soft restart of the guest operating
system.
Right so I can always you know reset or power off my virtual machines if I want to.
But that's essentially the equivalent of pulling the power cord if I want to do a soft windows shutdown
or a Windows restart.
I need more tools installed on my virtual machine to be able to push those operations out from the Vee's
for web client.